		DEVOPS
		
DEV = devlopment
OPS = Operations

DEVOPS -
    	it's not a tool, its a cultural movement, where diffrent tools are essential
	devops grew out of , from Agile soft development.

* DEVOPS PROPERTIES *
Build automation : ( JENKINS )
	Fast, Consistence, Repeatable, Portable, Reliable
Continuous Integration : ( JENKINS)
	Early Detection Of Error & Fix It,
	Frequent Release, Continuous testing
Continuous Delivery :
	Automated deployement, Rolled back anytime if problem occure
	Faster time to market, Lower Risk
Configuration Management :   ( ANSIBLE, PUPPET, CHEF )
	New version of soft packeges in a single cofiguration file, can make changes/updation on all 	 server, save time, maintainability,  
Orchestration: ( KUBERNATES )
	scalability, stability, save time, self service automation, 
Monitoring :
	Fast recovery, Visible across teams, Automated response


https://xebialabs.com/periodic-table-of-devops-tools/



Development-security-Operations

IaaS - Infrastructure as a service is a form of cloud computing that provides virtualized computing 	resources over the internet. 
 
 Cyber Security & Attacks:
 	- attack surface whre attackes can take actions, keep attack surface small
	- Malware infect individual server or on network


CONTAINERS :
	where files are stored in executable application format, modules.
	container images are ephrmeral(for short time)
	where can updation performes, & new commits & images will be pushed to docker hub.
	
Docker bench is a s/w used tool to analyze server infrastructure & docker components
cmnds used to configure require content :
docker pull
docker push
docker build
docker create
docker run


PaaS :  Platform as a Service Provide platform & infastructure via self-service tool, to the developers.

Templated - templates are predefine configuration.
	  - Whenever specific framework & infrastructure require, we can simply select from available templates.
	 
OpenShift :
	It's an open source PaaS Offering from RedHat.
	It's adopted docker & Kubernates as standard.
	It's fully automated container orchestration system.
	here workloads are promoted from development ro test, staging & Production.
* Platforms provided by openshift are- .NET, Apache HTTP Server, cake PHP, mysql, django,jenkins, perl, nginix, wildfly, python, ruby, etc.


OWASP Deppendancy Checker :
	- Open Web Application Security Project is an opensource scanning system.
	- Can be run through CLI, & automated build program like Jenkins.
	- Provides human0readable, & machine readable reports.
	
	 
SONATYPE NEXUX :
	- it's an open source repository management system.
	- build artifacts produced by, programs like maven are scanned as automated build pipeline.
	- onced build o/p is produced, it's import to pushed & compile file to secure repository
	- repos are ensure QA & staging, pull the same file, 
	- maintain uniformity and & control the deployement of pipeline.
	
		  	

Continuous Delivery Release Automation (CDRA) :
	- tooling required to promote application workloads to upper environments with minimal or no manual intervention.
	- auto-Deploy system are typically used to, all post-builds platforms incuding test, QA, UAT pre-production.
	

Continuous Monitoring :
	It's an ongoing automated evaluation of workloads to monitor there health & function
Production Monitoring :
	include threat detection,, vulnerability detection, & malware prevention.			 




































